hi I'm Ian Gordon along with dennis
pittsenbarger and Nick miles thanks for
joining us this week for fuel Nick
what's on this week's show on this
week's show going to have to behind the
wheels the suzuki xl7 along with the
all-new Lincoln Navigator and then we're
going to visit with ty from Baxter Auto
Parts to do some spring cleaning and it
all starts right now
[Music]
you
welcome back to the fuel show still to
come fuel news our second behind the
wheel the all-new Lincoln Navigator and
ty from Baxter Auto Parts is going to
show us how to do some car spring
cleaning our first behind the wheel is
the suzuki xl7 now the suzuki xl7 first
hit the streets in 2001 was kind of like
a stretched-out Grand Vitara but it was
the cheapest SUV on the streets with a
third row of seats the second generation
debuted at the New York Auto Show last
year and it's made along with the Chevy
Equinox in the Pontiac Torrent
in Ontario Canada his Dennison Ian with
the first look at the 2007 suzuki xl7
[Music]
first category for the new suzuki xl7 is
q-factor the gadget or tech score and
for what you would expect out of a
suzuki this thing's off the charts well
sure you could take all the standard
equipment power windows power door locks
all those type of items there cruise
control air conditioning but really what
really takes the cake it's a Suzuki with
standard OneTouch remote start I mean I
don't know if any other vehicle in this
price range that you can reach out the
window and bam remote start your car it
totally blew me away that you found that
kind of feature in a vehicle this price
point now you could talk about abs
brakes and all the little safety items
they have it is a fully complete loaded
vehicle in its base trim and I mean that
by the regular power options now you can
get leather and you can get power seats
and heated seats if you like but overall
it's that OneTouch remote start that
blows me away and just see it
Mississippi it's a cool feature plus
it's got the great DVD system as an
option for four q factor for the suzuki
xl7 on the curb appeal for the new
suzuki xl7 and i saw this the first time
when it was called the equinox I think
you're being unfair it's better-looking
than the equinox and again here I am
saying this stuff about Suzuki I'm not
knocking Suzuki I love it I'd love to
have a GSXR 1000 would that be a
motorcycle hey listen when you're
looking at these vehicles you don't get
too much in this price range that really
differentiates itself from another
vehicle within the lineup this vehicle
is sharp looking nice angular lines it
has a nice flowing idea that goes from
the front to the back of the vehicle
nice headlights I think I'm going to
mark that is probably the one thing that
stands out it has this real aggressive
front fascia that makes it
like it's angry like it's kind of
pointed down or sneering at you yeah it
definitely is kind of a beefed up manned
up version of the suzuki xl7 have passed
so for that alone will give it 3.5 for
curb-appeal
performance is the next category for
this is tsuki xl7 and power is provided
by a 3.6 liter dual overhead cam v6 and
I think it's adequate power adequate
adequate 252 horsepower 243 pounds feet
of torque is just adequate you don't
have nearly that in two of your little
Ford Focuses hey listen it's a great
driving vehicle you're talking about a
shiftable five-speed automatic
transmission as fully independent
suspension McPherson struts in the front
Multi leek in the rear and it does have
a limited slip differential in the back
so you can't put all the power on the
ground the nice thing about the way the
Suzuki is put together and the
performance of this vehicle is the
chassis it feels very solid though it's
a sheer platform with a couple other
vehicles they've done a good job of
making it feel as if it's connected to
the road and I think that has a lot to
do with just good engineering and good
thought through when you're talking
about giving someone a multi-use vehicle
you have to look at it from the aspect
of how it drives on the street how it
drives on the freeway and how it'll
handle off the road and I think it does
all of those well yeah I think it's
drivability is definitely a strength
that when you take five passengers or
the average family and drive it around
it's fine it's when you load it with the
seven pastors that it needs more
horsepower you're being too picky I am
let's do three points two five for
performance for the suzuki xl7 fintan
finishes the next category for this is
Zuki XL seven and if power is any
suggestion like we did in the last
segment fit and finish is also up for
suzuki as well and i think you made good
points I mean I believe that the way
that this vehicle is put together can
really show the future for suzuki as an
auto manufacturer they've already come
in with some really inexpensive baseline
vehicles now they're starting to move up
scale when you move up scale with a
vehicle lineup you have to be able to
make it that much better
people expect it and it's under a little
bit more scrutiny than say a mercedes
banz where they just kind of assume the
quality is there they've done a great
job of putting it together and for me I
was impressed when you shut the doors
when you slam the rear liftgate
it feels as if it's put together it's
all the neat little accents as well like
the wood trim and the soft touch leather
inside just beautiful
put together 3.75 for fit and finish for
this is tsuki xl7 drivability is the
final category for the suzuki xl7 and
you put in the suspension that dennis
talked about the great engineering the
build quality the fit and finish and
just kind of the fun bit of this thing
is to drive as a small SUV we've got it
right high well sure when you look at
the price point for this vehicle I mean
you can get into them in the mid 20s
fully loaded with all the goodies
including that remote start I talked
about earlier in the show you're talking
about a vehicle around 30 grand there's
not a lot you can go out and buy for 30
grand these days and a support utility
that has all the amenities you're
looking for especially if you get little
extras like that and the DVD system
overall drivability has got to be high
for me yeah you drop a 3rd row and drop
the 2nd row you have 95 cubic feet of
storage room as well so overall very
useful for for drivability
[Music]
let's see how Denis nian score the 2007
suzuki xl7 4q fact to the tackle gadget
score they gave it a four point zero in
curb appeal a three point five in
performance what's under the hood a
three point two five and fit and finish
a three point seven five finally for
drivability the overall usefulness of a
vehicle they gave it a 4.0 the total
score for the 2007 suzuki xl7 was
eighteen point five out of a possible
twenty five we still have our second
behind the wheel the 2007 Lincoln
Navigator - Baxter Auto Parts is going
to show us how to spring clean a vehicle
and when fuel returns we'll have fuel
news
[Music]